I know you are excited because you've been looking forward to this bug con for the entire section on
linear algebra.
So here we go.
If you haven't already.
Now is the time to pause the video go through all of this code and find and fix all of the bugs.
All right so I can already see that we are going to need to start by importing some modules and special
functions.
So let's see.
We will need import gnome pi as and P. We will need import Sim pie as Sim and we will need to import
from IE.
Python that display the display and math functions.
Possibly we will need.
Oh we will definitely need Matlab lib.
Now I see it here.
So also import map plot lib dot pi plot as P L T.
All right.
I think that's probably all of the modules that we will need.
Let's see.
Create a column vector and then off this is a lot of complicated embedded functions here.
Let's just see what happens.
Mm hmm.
All right.
So first of all this looks a little awkward to have these double square brackets here but this is also
clearly not a column vector.
It's supposed to be a column vector well what's going on here is that each row in the matrix when you
specify a matrix using num paid array each row needs to be in its own square brackets.
So this needs to be in a square bracket and the three needs to be in a square brackets.
So and those other parentheses I think we're just there to confuse us.
So there we go.
Each row in its own square bracket and then the entire matrix is in a set of square brackets.
That gives us a column vector.
All right.
Visualize scalar vector multiplication.
Let's see I'm just going to run this and we get an error.
Now this one is a bit tricky actually.
So we say the error message claims to be on this line.
Then if you look at the error message itself it says string object is not callable.
So what is going on here.
There are actually no strings in this line.
So this is really tricky.
The mistake here the the error actually happens on this line of code.
And when I'm doing wrong here well you know I whoever wrote this code the terrible programmer who wrote
this code what they are trying to do is set the axis to be square.
But in fact what they've done is set the axis as a variable to be string.
So what we need to do is put this in parentheses like this except now we still actually get this error.
And basically what's happened here is we've just done some real fundamental damage to peel.
You got access by setting it equal to the string a square.
And you know sometimes when you really get your python code all caught up in a bundle it's good just
to restart everything.
So I'm going to select kernel up here and restart and it says are you sure you want to restart all the
variables will be lost.
Now sometimes that's problematic but it's no problem here.
All we need to do is rerun this cell here to reinforce all of these modules okay.
And then I'm going to go back and rerun this.
So now the plotting part looks good.
But the legend doesn't quite look right.
So I don't know what this percent is doing here.
This is actually just vector V here in red an SUV.
So I think we don't even need that percent sign.
Okay.
Now let's look at what's happening here.
Just to make sure that we're doing the right thing.
So we have this vector here minus two two that is minus 2 comma 2 not minus a 2 2.
And these scalar here is point seven.
Now if the vector is minus two plus two which is this line here and a scalar is point seven then actually
this blue line should probably come up to around here.
It shouldn't be this dot.
I think something is fundamentally wrong here.
Let's also check out what this variable s v actually is.
So if we print out S V then it's just a zero.
This is actually not this vector times point seven.
And so what's going on here.
I have no idea what's going on here actually but it looks like we are computing the dot product between
s com s so a vector that is point seven point seven and minus two plus two.
Now it actually makes sense where this result comes from essentially what we are doing here is saying
point seven times minus two plus point seven times plus two and that equals zero.
So this is totally totally wrong.
This actually is just supposed to be s times V like this.
And now when we print this out we see we get what we expect.
So point seven times two is one point four and then we just get a scaled version of this vector course.
Now we've gotten some other errors and the arrows on this line and you can actually see that this is
you know we need the first component here and the second component here.
That should be one for the second component.
All right.
Now this looks good.
I'm gonna say that is the successful completion of this particular problem here.
All right.
So here we go.
Algorithm to compute the dot product.
So we have some random vectors and then we do the dot product by setting the dot product to be there
this variable to be zero.
And adding to itself the corresponding element in V Times W..
And then we compare that to the function and num num pi dot dot.
All right.
So we already get an error and this is related to shape.
So I hope that you already caught that one so you could change this to 7.
Or you could have changed that to 8 either way would be fine.
Mm hmm.
Now these two answers are actually not equal to each other.
And what is going on here.
Well if we look at this line of code carefully it looks like this was a typo.
This probably should say hi.
Otherwise it was fixed to be the first or the second element in vector W..
Let's see.
And now we get the same answer for both of these mechanisms.
And now I'd like to show you a little bit of a shortcut in Python for getting this to work.
So if you want to set a variable to be equal to itself plus something else you can write out the line
of code like this.
Totally fine.
I think this looks very clear.
However it's possible to write it out in even more condensed language.
And that's by saying plus equals instead of just equals.
So python will interpret this expression here as saying that the dot product equals itself plus whatever
is on the right hand side of this equation and you can see that here.
Now I'm running this again and you get the same answer for NPR dot dot and our algorithm here.
Now obviously these answers will change every time I run it because these are random numbers.
Very nice.
Let's see.
This doesn't exactly tell us what we're supposed to be doing here but I can look down so here we are
creating some data as a range of numbers that goes from 0 to 9 and then we add some normally distributed
random numbers.
And here we are computing the correlation and confirm with the NUM pi correlation coefficient.
OK.
So I expect these two variables to be identical to each other and they're kind of close I guess but
certainly not identical.
Let's see what's going wrong.
So remember from the video that I showed about computing the correlation coefficient.
That was an application of the dot product in statistics that the numerator of the correlation coefficient
is the dot product between the two vectors and the denominator is the square root of the dot product
of the vector with itself times the square root of the dot product of the other vector with itself.
And then we do this division.
And so actually all of this is correct.
However we are missing one thing.
What does that one thing that we're missing.
The one thing that we're missing is that these data vectors these data streams need to be mean centered
so means center and that just means subtracting the mean from the data set.
So data 1 equals data 1 minus num Pi I mean of data 1.
And now if you are already thinking that this can be simplified then good for you we are going to do
that like this and now so that's four data one.
And then we repeat this for data too.
And now we get exactly the same correlation coefficient for both of these operations.
And actually it's interesting to see that once you get down to about 10 or twelve or whatever this is
degrees of precision then eventually these algorithms do start to diverge a tiny bit.
And that's because core color of this function is actually implementing a slightly different and more
efficient and faster algorithm than what I am showing here.
All right.
Here we go.
We are trying to compute the outer product and this looks again like one of these approaches where we
compare the known pi function outer.
So the built in function outer to computing this manually using the algorithm for computing the outer
product.
So remember that one way to compute the outer product is to set each row of the outer product matrix
to be the row of the right matrix.
So are the right vector which is gonna be this one times each element of the Left vector which here
looks like 0 1.
So that already tells me that there's something going wrong here.
So let's let's just try to run this and this says could not broadcast input.
Right.
OK.
So based on what I just described as the algorithm for computing the outer product matrix I can already
determine that this is incorrect.
This should be the entire row vector on the right and each element of the column vector on the left
like this.
Mm hmm.
So now we don't get any explicit Python errors but when I say the outer mat so this outer product matrix
here minus num pi dot outer we get zeros for the first four rows and then non zeros for these last four
rows.
So there's clearly something strange happening here.
Let's try it again.
Mm hmm.
Again the same things.
Now we get all zeros for the first four rows and a couple of zeros here as well.
But it seems like the first four rows of zeros is pretty consistent.
I wonder what would happen if I would change the sizes of these matrices.
So let's say what if this is like six elements and this is eight elements.
Oh now we actually do get an error message and it says index six is out of bounds for Axis 0 with size
6.
OK what's actually happening is in this line here for the range.
Now notice that we are what we are actually looping through is elements in 0 1 but what we are looping
through here what we are specifying is the range of the elements is actually coming from the size of
0 2.
So I'm just going to replace the two with one and now we get a matrix of all zeros.
But this is a really tricky point because you know when it was this way.
So how it was initially we didn't get any python coding errors because technically we haven't done anything
wrong in terms of programming.
We've done something wrong in terms of of math and indexing but we haven't done anything illegal in
terms of Python coding.
But the result is wrong.
And if you weren't actually comparing this then yeah you probably wouldn't even notice.
You might not even notice that this error was in there.
So these are the most devious kinds of coding mistakes.
Anyway let's move on.
OK.
Matrix multiplication.
So we have a random five by five matrix multiply it by the five by five.
Identity matrix and what we should see is a full matrix of random numbers which we don't see in fact
we see a matrix that's mostly zeros.
So what's happening here is that the asterisk is implementing element y's multiplication but we need
a full on matrix multiplication.
So there you go.
All right let's go on to the next cell.
It looks like this is a similar kind of problems.
I can already see that this is a little bit weird here multiplying a by the identity matrix so here
we see the original matrix A.
Here we are doing element y's multiplication.
And this says there's actually a size problem.
So for element y's multiplication it's not possible with these two matrices because they are different
sizes they have a different number of elements.
So let's see what would happen if we would replace this with matrix multiplication.
And there you go.
We get that a on the top is the same thing as a matrix multiplying by the identity matrix on the bottom
here.
So you can see that this matrix is the same as this matrix All right.
Here.
This one says random matrices are in vertical.
So what we do is create a matrix of random integers between minus five and plus five.
It's five by five and it's random so it should be in vertical.
So I don't really see what the issue is here.
We should get the identity matrix because the matrix times its inverse is the identity matrix.
Let's see what's going on.
Module num Pi has no attribute in are the problem here is that it is not in the main num pi module it's
actually in the Lin algebra module or the sub module.
Okay so now we've multiplied a by its inverse and we get the identity matrix let's see so here we are
plotting the iron spectrum.
So we create a matrix multiply that matrix by its own transpose remember that gives us a square symmetric
matrix this matrix is already Square but it does give us a symmetric matrix and let's just see what's
going on here.
Hmm.
So we don't get any python errors.
So that part seems okay but let's look at these eigenvalues.
You know there's like 25 of these eigenvalues but this is just a five by five matrix and we can even
confirm this.
I'm going to print out num Pi the shape of M and this is a five by five matrix.
So there's really only supposed to be five eigenvalues.
Let's see what's going on.
I'm going to look at the help file of the dark string for Ike and let's see if this gives us some insight.
So this returns W is the eigenvalues and then V the second output is the icon vectors.
So in fact the order of the output is wrong here.
This is just swapped.
This should be the icon values and this should be the icon vectors.
And now we only get five components five things being plotted here which is consistent that is exactly
how many we expect for the eigenvalues.
By the way I haven't yet introduced you to this function flatten num pie dot matrix dot flatten but
essentially what that's doing is taking this matrix or whatever is the input matrix and expanding it
out from a matrix into one really long array a really long vector.
And so for a the ion vectors matrix which is a five by five matrix when you flatten it you get twenty
five total elements and that's why you get a line of twenty five here.
So these are just all the individual components of all the each of the five ion vectors.
Okay.
So set that back.
So that looks better by the way.
You can also see here that the eigenvalues are not intrinsically sorted by magnitude.
So they don't come out as the largest eigenvalues first.
That has to do with the estimation algorithm that Python uses to compute the eigenvalues.
Anyway let's move on.
This looks like the last exercise to work on for this bug hunt.
So it looks like we are creating a matrix of random integers.
It's a 10 by 20 matrix so actually we cannot perform an eigenvalues composition on this matrix.
But of course we can do an SVOD.
So we do the SVOD.
We create a full matrix based on a diagonal matrix based on these singular values.
And then we try to reconstruct that matrix and make some plots.
All right.
And we already get an error and it's related to size.
And this is in fact something that I discussed in the previous video on the singular value decomposition.
So what we need to do is first reconstruct is to be a zeros matrix corresponding to the size or the
shape of the matrix A and then we need to loop over the elements in s so range of length s and then
we say s the ISF diagonal element equals the corresponding element in the little s.
So in vector us.
Okay.
So now let's see how this looks.
Oh we still get an error.
It's another mismatched dimension hey but you know looking at the order this is not the correct order.
It should be you times Sigma times V.
So I'm going to rewrite this like this.
You times Sigma times V.
Actually this is v transpose python will automatically spit out v transpose.
OK so this is looking good here we see the Matrix a reconstructed matrix A and the difference between
the two which is an empty plot it's all zeros and that's comforting because that means that we have
reconstructed this matrix accurately.
I hope you enjoyed this bug hunt and more generally I hope you enjoyed learning a little bit about linear
algebra from this section of the course as I mentioned in the beginning of this section linear algebra
is a beautiful rich and really important topic in mathematics I hope you feel like you got a little
bit of a taste a little bit of enthusiasm about learning linear algebra from this section and maybe
you are inspired to continue learning about linear algebra in more depth.